---
author:
  name: "Shagun attri"
date: 2023-05-04
linktitle: beta
title: The Consumption Cycle!
type:
- post
- posts
weight: 10
series:
categories:
  - essay
tags:
- roles
aliases:
- /blog/r13/
---

As *human beings*, we inherit certain traits genetically while some others we develop as we grow. A lot of the early learnings and teachings kids receive is from parents who feed information hoping it rings a bell in the child to help them create a pattern and apply it on their own.

This constant consumption loop of ingesting, disgesting, and applying information in the real world is the first input of information intake allowing the kid to interpret and understand it in their way and react to it.

Kids in general run in sort of an autopilot mode, slowly picking up pace as they grow and consume more information with better understanding skills. They create a feedback loop which they then use to learn and understand the world.

There are times when kids ask questions that are beyond their purview of understanding but their ability to think and general curiosity shows that they have made progress oftentimes also making the parents think.

People become what they consume, hear, and watch, this maybe one of the reasons why parents told their kids to not watch certain cartoons over others. Weird correlation but is true if you think about it!

Consuming is one thing but the endless flood of information on the internet in this day and age is the main driving force that defines your taste for what you like vs don’t like building a constant in-need-for-consumption mode in your head.

A good test to understand your content preferences would be to observe what you end up watching when you are busy or in a time crunch but need a break from work, etc.

In such situations, with the number of options available, you’ll be very picky as to what you choose helping build an understanding of one's taste.

Most boomers don’t care about the taste or aesthetics of the content they consume. All they want is information or some new information that they didn’t already know. They will consume the same info packed in different forms but not worry about it being a waste of time. It is a revision for them at this point.

While for Genz and millennials, taste defines what you know and how you perceive the world to function.

Content and consumption patterns hence vary a lot across age groups and also geographies. You have to consume and keep consuming until it finally ends, which will probably outlast most of our existence for now.

And thus the cycle keeps moving.