---
author:
  name: "Shagun attri"
date: 2023-04-04
linktitle: beta
title: The Microsoft Moves
type:
- post
- posts
weight: 10
series:
categories:
  - reads
tags:
- essay
aliases:
- /blog/r13/
---

Chess is a beautiful game, one that makes you think ahead in time and guess the moves of the opponent to gain an advantage and win a piece over.

Such is business, you predict markets, understand user needs and sentiments building a product that can solve a problem for the user.

Seems easy at first, but building businesses, or playing chess for that matter requires decision-making to stay on top along with other elements we will learn throughout the essay.

Well, then how does one get better at making good decisions you ask?

Let's take an example and understand how great businesses make decisions and how they stay on top of the food chain.

With the recent boom in Artificial Intelligence, Microsoft has **positioned** itself right to make the most of the opportunity and integrate artificial intelligence capabilities from its Open AI partnership.

Microsoft products like Edge, Office, Teams, Visual Studio, and Defender now come with AI capabilities built-in to improve **user productivity** and help them get more work done.


> You might ask, the AI trend has been making rounds just recently so how is a giant corporation like Microsoft able to ship software this quickly destroying everyone in its sight?

Before we get to that, time to first understand the art of playing chess and making the right decisions. With chess, one needs practice and the ability to predict moves better that your opponent.

The Genius in charge at Microsoft has done exactly that. Satya Nadella, CEO of Microsoft is a veteran Microsoft employee who joined in 1992 and has been there ever since.

From being in the system for so long he understands the structure and how decisions are made within the organization while climbing the corporate ladder.

In his book, titled "Hit Refresh" Satya gives a glimpse into his way of executing and bringing about the change in Microsoft helping it reach its potential.

Satya's style of leading is a very unique one as he is great at both leading and managing, listen to what Sam Altman for Open AI has to say about Satya. 

https://youtu.be/nAz_fzxNQGY

<html>
<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/nAz_fzxNQGY" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" allowfullscreen></iframe>
</html>

With Satya's ability to build a vision for the future and the unique style of operating the company, he can predict moves way longer in the future and make safe bets like the one he hid with Artificial Intelligence.

Mircosoft partnered with Open AI back in July 2019 which now allows Microsoft to use their technology and use it in their products.

This is how Microsoft is able to beat the market with its ability to look at the market and predict moves by aligning its pieces making for the best attack against the market and winning market share as a business while providing real value to the users.

The moves were decided well in advance of pursuing AI and when the time was right Microsoft started its attack on Google trying to make a dent in the already powerful king ruling the territory of search and Ads.