---
author:
  name: "Shagun attri"
date: 2023-02-15
linktitle: beta
title: Web3,4,5, and beyond ...
type:
- post
- posts
weight: 10
series:
categories:
  - reads
tags:
  - links
  - Sunday
aliases:
- /blog/r9/
---

Crypto, web3, bitcoin, doge, luna, token, NFT, trade, sell, decentralized, dip, and dump have been talk of the town during the 21/22 lockdown period on elite Twitter tech bro communities circles where all they could talk about was web3 being the future.

Memes were made, money was dumped to create projects and people casually scrolling through their social feeds got into the web3 and traded crypto for some returns.

People during lockdown be like “baithe baithe kya Kare, karna he kuch kaam“, many getting into investing for first while our tech bros are plotting and scheming on making the next crypto unicorn.

The engineering manpower it takes to build and run decentralized system of this scale or a trading system for that matter is the only thing that made sense during the time.

web3 though had its real world usecases to solve and improve but was never picked up to solve hard problems at scale. The solutions we see are just tech bros experimenting with new tech, but it never really solved a “real-world“ problem that generated some value. Just like the virus, web3 was the hot new thing in the market that everyone wanted to jump onto.

But looking at things from the outside it always felt superficial - tech and solution looking for a problem where no one is willing to pay in the end. web3 solutions generally had great user inteface, but was nothing more than a colurful 💩.

We have seen similar trend cycles in tech where AI was one the top tech to get into, Data Science is another and this time around it is web3 and crypto. The hype has died down but it is a great case study to solve for on how these trends influence and impact people and their jobs/interests.

Looking at these hype cycles from a macro lens and trying to understand patterns shows how a lot of this was also a side-effect of the US money printing exercise. People willing to explore and learn more things with the extra time at hand.

Tech in general runs in cycles - people see, watch, improve, and iterate on. Some live on, but it's good the trend had died(sort of). When discussions around the looming recession started showing off their true colors. It build a bad press crypto leader and SBF web3/FTX saga had run off recently also didn’t help from saving the rocking boat.

Based on the FTX saga, and how SBF never got arrested for all the money he lost, the talk after, and now all of a sudden we have one of the biggest frauds being committed but no tangible actions from the authorities that suggest that these schemes were made to bring back money that was flowing around and trying to take control.

Trends and interactions generally occur in cycles and can be applied to most things.Look at the economic order and the changes we see in the power struggle between the west and the rest of the world.

Explained in detail by Ray Dalio in his latest book and the animation makes it clear.

Many tangents not too much time to write, sigh.

### Web4 and beyond - The AI Wars

We are to see multiple web[x] and how the internet evolves as we move to automate most tasks and leave decision-making to humans. Something that goes on in the piloting industry where the best pilot is autopilot but we still have human pilots to make critical decisions.

I see similar things happening in tech and most places in general.

Something similar that has now taken the tech bro community by storm is the rise of AI tooling and chatbots - thanks to Open AI and ChatGPT

This hype around the space is similar to web3 but at least it generates value for users in terms of improving productivity at the end of the day.

Maybe we can expect something similar through the use of:
And it's exciting to watch all this unfold with the:
3D chess unfolding in front of us with Google and Microsoft and Open AI

Elon is on the sidelines still making headlines on how the AI is not tweaked right and has a bias in its LLMs.

There are inconsistencies but it's about how you deal with and how many heads you can put together to solve a problem.

Google is in a situation where they now have to step up even though have a cash cow generating revenue like no other business model, but boi has Microsoft hit the nail on the head targetting the most lucrative segment of online search and redefining it as we see, taking a piece of Google’s pie and “make them dance.“

Google Bard has been a mess. Their internal investigation and employees telling of the AI being sentient don’t help either.

Google has mostly focused on AI for its at-scale problems and integrating it across Google products. It was always there but never the most important feature.

Now it’s time to commercialize and bring it front and center.
Google’s AI capabilities are not short of amazing - Google Lens, Google Camera with its image process, Deepmind, and more are examples of google can take up the challenge with Microsoft.

It's about execution now and Microsoft has seen a good run of successes while google is always stuck or caught up in some mess.

The more I read and learn the more it feels like that power and money can move mountains in tech at least and it is true in most situations
Elon using his other company stocks to run Twitter and shape free speech as we see it.


All in podcast insights and links
Search engine → Answer Engine
Chat GPT and its impact → Open AI
Microsoft and its investment pieces
AI Safety and Security
Data and security
safety of data
Bias

The Open source goons and evangelists


All In Podcast
Other Perspectives: 
https://neeva.com/blog/neeva-announces-public-availability